# Blockchain Hacking

https://www.epiqglobal.com/en-us/resource-center/articles/blockchain-can-be-hacked

https://medium.com/immunefi/hacking-the-blockchain-an-ultimate-guide-4f34b33c6e8b

---



- 51% attacks: During the verification process, individuals referred to as “miners” will review the transactions to ensure they are genuine. When one or more [hackers](https://www.epiqglobal.com/en-us/services/regulatory-compliance/cyber-breach-response) gain control over half of the mining process, there can be extremely negative consequences. For example, the miners can create a second version of the blockchain, referred to as a fork, where certain transactions are not reflected. This allows the miners to create an entirely different set of transactions on the fork and designate it as the true version of the blockchain, even though it is fraudulent. This also allows the hackers to double spend cryptocurrency. These 51% attacks are more common on smaller scale blockchains because it is hard for miners to gain significant control over larger and more complex blockchains.
- Creation errors: Sometimes, there may be security glitches or errors during creation of blockchain. This may be more common with larger, more intricate blockchains. When this occurs, hackers looking for a way in can identify the vulnerabilities and attempt an attack. This has transpired with smart contracts, which use a blockchain network to operate. Common functions of smart contracts include assisting with the financial aspect of contract dealings and automating tasks. [Legal professionals](https://www.epiqglobal.com/en-us/services/business-of-law-services) may encounter smart contracts in their practice, whether using them internally or through exposure from cases and client issues. If a security flaw exists on the blockchain network where a smart contract operates, hackers may be able to steal money from users without being detected because the fraudulent activity is not reflected. Unfortunately, since blockchain transactions cannot be altered, the only way to get back stolen money is to make a fork that all users recognize as the authoritative blockchain.
- Insufficient security: Many blockchain hacks have happened on exchanges, which is where users can trade cryptocurrecy. If the security practices surrounding the exchanges are weak, hackers will have easier access to data.

Now, there are caveats. I will only address the technical ones. Web3 is not a panacea. Most DApps aren’t even that decentralized for several reasons ranging from gas fees (Ether paid to use the world computer) to erroneously claiming DApp status, so as to ride it to the moon. It’s extremely expensive to store data on the blockchain and unencrypted, sensitive data must never even be fed into it, as anyone can reverse-engineer the bytecode and reconstruct the data. (Easier said than done for the average person). Other protocols have solved the gas issue by implementing lower fees. ETH itself plans to fix this with the release of ETH 2.0.